With all of our data gathered and an event being
triggered inside of our application,
we need to now create the listener for that event
that will create a reset token, store that token in our database,
and all of the relevant information to retrieve and verify that it is
actually who we think it is trying to change our password,
and send that email off to that registered email address with us.
Let's create that listener and the back‑end service impl
and repository to capture all of that.
The password listener is where things are going to start to get a
little bit more interesting inside of this example.
And we want to go ahead and exit full screen inside of our app,
go to our util package,
and we're going to create this listener right alongside our other
messaging components that we've already created.
We'll give this a name of PasswordListener.
We want to make this implement our ApplicationListener
interface for our OnPasswordResetEvent.
We're going to get a error to begin with because we haven't created the
methods that it wants us to by implementing that interface,
so let's go ahead and do that now.
And I'm going to redirect this OnApplicationEvent to
a method we're going to create.
And we'll just call this this.resetPassword, and we'll pass in the event.
We can create that method inside of here as well.
And now there's not really a great order of one over the other of the things
that we need to do to implement this method completely.
So let's begin by annotating this as a component,
and that just, if you'll remember,
makes it a Spring‑registered bean inside of our app.
Then we're going to need a handful of variables inside of here.
We're going to create a private string, and that is for our server URL.
And as I mentioned before, you could make this part of a parent class,
and we should also inject that hardcoded string in through properties.
If you're wondering how to do that,
go ahead and look at the Spring Fundamentals course that we
have out here that shows you how to do some of these best
practices of extracting these out.
But to keep it simple, we're just going to hardcode that inside of here.
We're also going to need our JavaMailSender that we used
from the account registration portion, so we'll say @Autowired.
We're going to create a private JavaMailSender instance.
We'll call this mailSender and save that.
Now this is broken down into three parts here.
We're going to create the password token,
and this is what we'll use to verify that whoever is
trying to change the password actually did so through the
interface of that email address.
We need to get the email properties,
and that's just what we need to send that actual email.
And then, finally, we're going to actually do just that,
send the actual email using the mail sender that we just imported in here.
So to flesh that out, let's start off by creating that password token,
and that is almost identical to what we did in our accountListener.
We're going to take our Password instance and get the actual
password that they've sent in out of that,
and we're going to use the UUID class from Java to get a randomized
string for that token ID that we have inside of our app.
And then there's one other piece that we haven't implemented yet.
We're going to use a passwordService, we haven't created this service yet,
and that will create a ResetToken that we pass in from our
Password instance and that UUID that we just created.
So we'll pass in password and the token that we just created.
Now we haven't created that interface yet.
We'll do that here in a second,
but let's finish out the rest of our email and actual sending of our email,
and then we'll focus on what the implementation of that service needs to be.
The email properties consists of a recipientAddress,
the subject, confirmationUrl, and the message.
The confirmationUrl is the event app URL that we got
earlier combined with our server URL,
and that is sent to the body of that email that we're
going to now send in the next step.
And the actual sending of that email is a simple mail message.
We set the To address from the recipientAddress that we
got out of our password object earlier.
We set our Subject, then the Text or Body of that.
Then we use mailSender to actually send that email.
Now this is all the pieces we need inside of the PasswordListener,
but we do still have to create that password service.
I'm going to talk a little bit more in depth about that before we create that actual interface and the implementing class behind it.